# DatAlgo - A tool to Visualize Data Structure & Algorithm

**“DatAlgo: An Algorithm Visualizer”** _is one of its kind which has its aim to provide systematic conversions of sorting algorithms for better understanding of the concept. Since the beginning of Data Structures, it has been the hardest challenge to create a platform that would not only do the real time conversion of Algorithms but also to compare different Algorithms side by side. There have been many efforts to make such an application but there is no such application as of yet in the market. It’s is a web-based approach that provides a single and most effective platform to visualize the Data Structure Algorithms._

## Flow of DatAlgo:

Firstly you visit the application at [DatAlgo](https://datalgo-frontend.herokuapp.com/). There you can find the Login, Signup & Logout buttons along with a separate section for Feedback for the users where they can provide the authors any queries/feedbacks.
When a user does their Login/Signup for the application, they are redirected to the section of Data Structures and Algorithms where they can Visualize and compare the different Data Structures and Algorithms. In the application, the user can visualize Array, Stack, Queue, LinkedList, Searching Algorithm, Sorting Algorithm, Tree Algorithm and Path Finding Algorithm. Every component has a ‘learn more’ section where they can learn about the basics of data structures & algorithms and they can even get their code in different programming languages.

The visualization for the Data Structures and Algorithm can be done in a very effective manner using DatAlgo. There is also the provision of real time conversion and comparison of the algorithms. You can also view the conversions from front and rear view of the input array. You can do the conversions via DatAlgo with your custom array in any component and can also view the conversions of the same array with different components.

There is also a section for online code editor which is visible to the user in the beginning itself. If the user is not logged in or haven’t signed up for the application, it will prompt the user to do it first before using the application hands on. If the user had already logged in then they can view the conversions directly.

The section for feedback is also given to the user so that they can ask the authors about queries regarding the application. It would be done via email integration and the authors can directly communicate and solve the query of the user via emails itself.
The Interface of DatAlgo is very user friendly. Also, all the custom input arrays work perfectly well for all the Data Structures and Algorithms. The application provides intuitive learning for students, researchers and even teaching professors. The user can also Interact with the code and make changes into them and save them into their account. Overall, its very simple to use application with the access of codes in different languages and also with the provision of visualizing and comparing the Data Structures and Algorithms.
